Kiara : MIDI Sequencer for geeks (and a bridge between audio and The
Editor War)

== Introduction

This is aplha material. You can have a look at the code and play a
little bit around. But this is not yet fully usable in real
conditions.

=== Why Kiara ?

The name is really crappy for a midi sequencer project, i know, but i
wasn't much inspired. Since i'm kind of fond of recursive acronyms, i
found this one was nearly funny. Sorry for you KDE guys, this is a GTK
based project. This is quite unusual to have a gtk based project
starting by the K letter and i'm sorry to break the convention, but
once i noticed my mistake it was too late.

I started to develop kiara in order to have a portable sequencer
really oriented towards live performance and improvisation. There are
plenty of really good sequencers out there, allowing to do precise and
powerfull sequencing. The problem is that most of those i'm aware of
are either too complex to be really usefull when improvising or too
simple for what i'm wanting to do. Some others are large machines with
audio sequencing features and are introduction glitches during
performance. The goal of kiara is to find another balance between all
these elements.

Finally, since most of us have an experience with hardware sequencer
and some of us are developpers, we are used to edit sequences only
with keyboard-like devices (i.e. with only buttons). Kiara then aims
to be controlled only by keyboard.

== Requirements

* ruby 1.9 and the development headers
* swig (a recent version might be necessary, i'm using 1.3.40)
* (?GNU) Make
* g++
* portmidi (and porttime, but they're part of the same package)
* ruby cairo gem (build this before building ruby gtk2)
* ruby-gtk2, with cairo support (you'll probably need to build it yourself for ruby1.9)
* glade 3 if you want to hack the gui code.
* boost (utility.hpp and boost::thread currently)

== Build and run (*nix)

There is not any automatic build system configuration at the time this
document is written. If you want to build it, you'll have to edit
manually the 'engine/Makefile' file, especially the RUBYINC and
RUBYARCH variables and maybe RUBY and CXX vars.

  $> cd /path/to/kiara/sources
  $> $ EDITOR lib/engine/Makefile #(Edit the Makefile)
  $> make
  $> ./kiara.rb

== Build on Win32

*Good* *Luck*

Binaries will be available soon.
I need to finish the keyboard event mapping code for windows

== Understanding how using it

I will try to write some code to automatically generates documentation
from the mappings definition file. Until then, you'll need to read the
mappings/mapping_base.rb file to discover the key mapping needed to
use kiara. By editing this file you could easily customize the
behavior of kiara.

